README.md, before:

# **Symbiotic entities metadata repository**

This repository is designed to manage metadata and related resources for decentralized entities, such as vaults, networks, operators, tokens, points, and curators.
It provides a standardized structure for organizing and accessing information about these entities.
By contributing to this repository, you help create a reliable, decentralized knowledge base. After being merged, this
data will be used in [app.sepolia.symbiotic.fi]() to provide users with accurate and up-to-date information about various entities in the DeFi ecosystem.

---

## **How to Add a New Entity to the Repository via Pull Requests**

### **Repository Structure**

The repository is organized as follows:

```
repository/
├── vaults/
│   ├── 0x<address>/
│   │   ├── info.json
│   │   └── logo.png (optional)
├── networks/
│   ├── 0x<address>/
│   │   ├── info.json
│   │   └── logo.png (optional)
├── operators/
│   ├── 0x<address>/
│   │   ├── info.json
│   │   └── logo.png (optional)
├── tokens/
│   ├── 0x<address>/
│   │   ├── info.json
│   │   └── logo.png (optional)
├── points/
│   ├── <points_distributor_id>/
│   │   ├── info.json
│   │   └── logo.png (optional)
├── curators/
│   ├── <curator_id>/
│   │   ├── info.json
│   │   └── logo.png (optional)
```

Each entity is identified by its Ethereum address (`0x...`), Points distributor ID (for points) or Curator ID (for curators), and its data is stored in a folder named after the address or ID. Inside this folder, there must be a file `info.json` containing metadata, and optionally, an icon file `logo.png`.

---

### **Steps to Add a New Entity**

**Note: After your PR is submitted, email your PR link to verify@symbiotic.fi from your official business email (domain must match that of your entity website) to allow us to confirm your identity ahead of merging your PR.**

1. **Determine the entity type**:
    - Decide whether the entity belongs to `vaults`, `networks`, `operators`, `tokens`, `points`, or `curators`.
    - If the entity is a `vault` or `points`, please be sure that it's collateral token entity is registered in the `tokens` folder before adding the vault metadata. If not, please add the token first.
2. **Register the entity in the registry**:
    - Before adding metadata for vaults, networks, or operators, ensure that they are registered in their respective registries. You can find the current registry contract addresses in the [Symbiotic documentation](https://docs.symbiotic.fi/deployments/current). Unregistered entities will not be accepted.
4. **Create a new folder**:
    - Navigate to the appropriate directory for the entity type.
    - Create a folder named after the Ethereum address (e.g., `0x1234567890abcdef1234567890abcdef12345678`) or point ID (e.g., `kalypso`).
5. **Add the `info.json` file**:
    - Include metadata in the specified format (see below).
6. **(Optional) Add an icon file**:
    - If available, include a `logo.png` file with the entity’s logo.

Your PR will be reviewed by the symbiotic team, and if approved, it will be merged into the repository. Please note that the PR will be reviewed only after the entity is checked with automated checks.

---

### **File Format: `info.json`**

The `info.json` file must follow this structure:

#### **Required Fields**
- `name` (string): The name of the entity.
- `description` (string): A brief description of the entity.
- `tags` (array of strings): Tags categorizing the entity.
- `links` (array of objects): External links related to the entity.

#### **Optional Fields for Tokens**
- `cmcId` (string): The CoinMarketCap ID for the token. Used to fetch price of the token in USD.
- `permitName` (string): The `name` field for EIP-2612 support.
- `permitVersion` (string): The `version` field for EIP-2612 support.

#### **Optional Fields for Vaults**
- `curatorId` (string): The ID of the curator of the vault.

#### **Optional Fields for Points**
- `type` (string): The type of the point (e.g., "network").
- `decimals` (number): The number of decimal places for the point.

#### **Supported `links` Types**
Each link should include:
- `type`: The type of the link. Supported values are:
    - `website`: The official website of the entity.
    - `explorer`: A blockchain explorer link for the entity's Ethereum address or contract.
    - `docs`: Documentation related to the entity.
    - `example`: Example use cases or tutorials.
    - `externalLink`: A link to be shown below the entity's name.
- `name`: A user-friendly name for the link.
- `url`: The URL of the resource.

#### **Examples**

##### **Token Example**
```json
{
  "name": "USDT",
  "description": "USDT is a stablecoin pegged to the US Dollar, widely used for trading and liquidity in cryptocurrency markets.",
  "tags": ["stablecoin", "usdt"],
  "links": [
    {
      "type": "website",
      "name": "Website",
      "url": "https://tether.to/"
    },
    {
      "type": "explorer",
      "name": "Etherscan",
      "url": "https://etherscan.io/token/0xdac17f958d2ee523a2206206994597c13d831ec7"
    },
    {
      "type": "docs",
      "name": "Tether Documentation",
      "url": "https://docs.tether.to/"
    },
    {
      "type": "example",
      "name": "Integration Guide",
      "url": "https://example.com/usdt-integration"
    }
  ],
  "cmcId": "825",
  "permitName": "USDT Permit Token",
  "permitVersion": "1"
}
```

##### **Vault Example**
```json
{
  "name": "DeFi Vault",
  "description": "A secure vault for decentralized finance.",
  "tags": ["vault", "DeFi"],
  "links": [
    {
      "type": "website",
      "name": "Website",
      "url": "https://example-vault.com/"
    },
    {
      "type": "docs",
      "name": "Vault Documentation",
      "url": "https://example-vault.com/docs"
    }
  ]
}
```

---

### **Icon File: `logo.png` (Optional)**

If you want to include an icon for the entity, follow these guidelines:
- **File Name**: `logo.png`
- **Dimensions**: 256x256 pixels
- **Format**: PNG
- **File Size**: up to 200KB

Place the `logo.png` file in the same folder as the `info.json` file.

---

### **Validation**

Before submitting your PR, ensure the following:
1. The Ethereum address is valid:
    - It must start with `0x` and be exactly 42 characters long.
2. The `info.json` file is valid:
    - Use a JSON validator, such as [https://jsonlint.com/](https://jsonlint.com/).
3. The `logo.png` file (if included) meets the requirements:
    - Dimensions: 256x256 pixels
    - Maximum file size: 200KB
4. Points Distributor ID and Curator ID should be in slug format:
    - Lowercase letters, numbers, and hyphens only
    - No spaces or special characters
    - Example: `my-points-program` or `my-curator-name`


---

### **Submitting the Pull Request**

Once your files are added to the repository, create a Pull Request with the following details:
1. **Entity Type**: Specify the type (vault, network, operator, token, point, curator).
2. **Ethereum Address** or **ID**: Provide the address or ID of the entity.
3. **Description**: Summarize the entity’s purpose and data.

#### **Example PR Description**
```
Added new token entity: 0x1234567890abcdef1234567890abcdef12345678

- **Name**: USDT
- **Description**: USDT is a stablecoin pegged to the US Dollar, widely used for trading and liquidity in cryptocurrency markets.
- **Tags**: stablecoin, usdt
- **Links**: 
  - [Website](https://tether.to/)
  - [Etherscan](https://etherscan.io/token/0xdac17f958d2ee523a2206206994597c13d831ec7)
  - [Tether Documentation](https://docs.tether.to/)
- **CMC ID**: 825
- **Permit Name**: USDT Permit Token
- **Permit Version**: 1
- **Icon**: Included (256x256 px)
```

---

### **Review and Approval**

Your PR will be reviewed to ensure:
- The `info.json` file has all required fields and valid data.
- The `logo.png` file (if included) meets the requirements.
- The metadata is accurate and well-structured.
- The submitter of the PR is from the entity in question (verified via an email with your PR link to verify@symbiotic.fi from your official business email)

After approval, your changes will be merged into the repository. Thank you for your contribution! 🎉

If you have any questions or issues, feel free to reach out to the symbiotic team.

Commit message:

Updated readme to include a vault type field

README.md, after:

# **Symbiotic entities metadata repository**

This repository is designed to manage metadata and related resources for decentralized entities, such as vaults, networks, operators, tokens, points, and curators.
It provides a standardized structure for organizing and accessing information about these entities.
By contributing to this repository, you help create a reliable, decentralized knowledge base. After being merged, this
data will be used in [app.sepolia.symbiotic.fi]() to provide users with accurate and up-to-date information about various entities in the DeFi ecosystem.

---

## **How to Add a New Entity to the Repository via Pull Requests**

### **Repository Structure**

The repository is organized as follows:

```
repository/
├── vaults/
│   ├── 0x<address>/
│   │   ├── info.json
│   │   └── logo.png (optional)
├── networks/
│   ├── 0x<address>/
│   │   ├── info.json
│   │   └── logo.png (optional)
├── operators/
│   ├── 0x<address>/
│   │   ├── info.json
│   │   └── logo.png (optional)
├── tokens/
│   ├── 0x<address>/
│   │   ├── info.json
│   │   └── logo.png (optional)
├── points/
│   ├── <points_distributor_id>/
│   │   ├── info.json
│   │   └── logo.png (optional)
├── curators/
│   ├── <curator_id>/
│   │   ├── info.json
│   │   └── logo.png (optional)
```

Each entity is identified by its Ethereum address (`0x...`), Points distributor ID (for points) or Curator ID (for curators), and its data is stored in a folder named after the address or ID. Inside this folder, there must be a file `info.json` containing metadata, and optionally, an icon file `logo.png`.

---

### **Steps to Add a New Entity**

**Note: After your PR is submitted, email your PR link to verify@symbiotic.fi from your official business email (domain must match that of your entity website) to allow us to confirm your identity ahead of merging your PR.**

1. **Determine the entity type**:
    - Decide whether the entity belongs to `vaults`, `networks`, `operators`, `tokens`, `points`, or `curators`.
    - If the entity is a `vault` or `points`, please be sure that it's collateral token entity is registered in the `tokens` folder before adding the vault metadata. If not, please add the token first.
2. **Register the entity in the registry**:
    - Before adding metadata for vaults, networks, or operators, ensure that they are registered in their respective registries. You can find the current registry contract addresses in the [Symbiotic documentation](https://docs.symbiotic.fi/deployments/current). Unregistered entities will not be accepted.
4. **Create a new folder**:
    - Navigate to the appropriate directory for the entity type.
    - Create a folder named after the Ethereum address (e.g., `0x1234567890abcdef1234567890abcdef12345678`) or point ID (e.g., `kalypso`).
5. **Add the `info.json` file**:
    - Include metadata in the specified format (see below).
6. **(Optional) Add an icon file**:
    - If available, include a `logo.png` file with the entity’s logo.

Your PR will be reviewed by the symbiotic team, and if approved, it will be merged into the repository. Please note that the PR will be reviewed only after the entity is checked with automated checks.

---

### **File Format: `info.json`**

The `info.json` file must follow this structure:

#### **Required Fields**
- `name` (string): The name of the entity.
- `description` (string): A brief description of the entity.
- `tags` (array of strings): Tags categorizing the entity.
- `links` (array of objects): External links related to the entity.

#### **Optional Fields for Tokens**
- `cmcId` (string): The CoinMarketCap ID for the token. Used to fetch price of the token in USD.
- `permitName` (string): The `name` field for EIP-2612 support.
- `permitVersion` (string): The `version` field for EIP-2612 support.

#### **Optional Fields for Vaults**
- `curatorId` (string): The ID of the curator of the vault.
- `vaultType` (string): The type of the vault. Can be one of:
    - `eth-restaking`: Vaults with ETH-flavored collateral restaked across multiple networks
    - `btc-restaking`: Vaults with BTC-flavored collateral restaked across multiple networks
    - `network-exclusive`: Vaults exclusive to a single network

#### **Optional Fields for Points**
- `type` (string): The type of the point (e.g., "network").
- `decimals` (number): The number of decimal places for the point.

#### **Supported `links` Types**
Each link should include:
- `type`: The type of the link. Supported values are:
    - `website`: The official website of the entity.
    - `explorer`: A blockchain explorer link for the entity's Ethereum address or contract.
    - `docs`: Documentation related to the entity.
    - `example`: Example use cases or tutorials.
    - `externalLink`: A link to be shown below the entity's name.
- `name`: A user-friendly name for the link.
- `url`: The URL of the resource.

#### **Examples**

##### **Token Example**
```json
{
  "name": "USDT",
  "description": "USDT is a stablecoin pegged to the US Dollar, widely used for trading and liquidity in cryptocurrency markets.",
  "tags": ["stablecoin", "usdt"],
  "links": [
    {
      "type": "website",
      "name": "Website",
      "url": "https://tether.to/"
    },
    {
      "type": "explorer",
      "name": "Etherscan",
      "url": "https://etherscan.io/token/0xdac17f958d2ee523a2206206994597c13d831ec7"
    },
    {
      "type": "docs",
      "name": "Tether Documentation",
      "url": "https://docs.tether.to/"
    },
    {
      "type": "example",
      "name": "Integration Guide",
      "url": "https://example.com/usdt-integration"
    }
  ],
  "cmcId": "825",
  "permitName": "USDT Permit Token",
  "permitVersion": "1"
}
```

##### **Vault Example**
```json
{
  "name": "DeFi Vault",
  "description": "A secure vault for decentralized finance.",
  "tags": ["vault", "DeFi"],
  "links": [
    {
      "type": "website",
      "name": "Website",
      "url": "https://example-vault.com/"
    },
    {
      "type": "docs",
      "name": "Vault Documentation",
      "url": "https://example-vault.com/docs"
    }
  ]
}
```

---

### **Icon File: `logo.png` (Optional)**

If you want to include an icon for the entity, follow these guidelines:
- **File Name**: `logo.png`
- **Dimensions**: 256x256 pixels
- **Format**: PNG
- **File Size**: up to 200KB

Place the `logo.png` file in the same folder as the `info.json` file.

---

### **Validation**

Before submitting your PR, ensure the following:
1. The Ethereum address is valid:
    - It must start with `0x` and be exactly 42 characters long.
2. The `info.json` file is valid:
    - Use a JSON validator, such as [https://jsonlint.com/](https://jsonlint.com/).
3. The `logo.png` file (if included) meets the requirements:
    - Dimensions: 256x256 pixels
    - Maximum file size: 200KB
4. Points Distributor ID and Curator ID should be in slug format:
    - Lowercase letters, numbers, and hyphens only
    - No spaces or special characters
    - Example: `my-points-program` or `my-curator-name`


---

### **Submitting the Pull Request**

Once your files are added to the repository, create a Pull Request with the following details:
1. **Entity Type**: Specify the type (vault, network, operator, token, point, curator).
2. **Ethereum Address** or **ID**: Provide the address or ID of the entity.
3. **Description**: Summarize the entity’s purpose and data.

#### **Example PR Description**
```
Added new token entity: 0x1234567890abcdef1234567890abcdef12345678

- **Name**: USDT
- **Description**: USDT is a stablecoin pegged to the US Dollar, widely used for trading and liquidity in cryptocurrency markets.
- **Tags**: stablecoin, usdt
- **Links**: 
  - [Website](https://tether.to/)
  - [Etherscan](https://etherscan.io/token/0xdac17f958d2ee523a2206206994597c13d831ec7)
  - [Tether Documentation](https://docs.tether.to/)
- **CMC ID**: 825
- **Permit Name**: USDT Permit Token
- **Permit Version**: 1
- **Icon**: Included (256x256 px)
```

---

### **Review and Approval**

Your PR will be reviewed to ensure:
- The `info.json` file has all required fields and valid data.
- The `logo.png` file (if included) meets the requirements.
- The metadata is accurate and well-structured.
- The submitter of the PR is from the entity in question (verified via an email with your PR link to verify@symbiotic.fi from your official business email)

After approval, your changes will be merged into the repository. Thank you for your contribution! 🎉

If you have any questions or issues, feel free to reach out to the symbiotic team.
